NAME
    ttylog - Log tty sessions

SYNOPSIS
      ttylog tty
        or
      ttylog -t tty  [ -w file ]
        or
      ttylog -r file [ -b file ] [ -i file ] [ -o file ]

EXAMPLE
    Type "w" to obtain the desired tty:

      [root@host root]# w
        9:01am  up 81 days, 16:06,  5 users,  load average: 0.00, 0.00, 0.00
      USER     TTY      FROM              LOGIN@   IDLE   JCPU   PCPU  WHAT
      root     pts/0    admin.com         8:19am  0.00s  0.39s  0.05s  w
      joe      pts/1    workstation.wi    8:02am 39:33   2.63s  2.19s  pine
      hacker   pts/4    client.isp.com    8:45am  5.00s 27.95s  1.45s  vim devil.cfg
      [root@host root]#

    Then connect to monitor what is being typed or what is seen through the
    tty:

      [root@host root]# ttylog pts/4

OPTIONS
    There are three modes:

    DIRECT (tty): Show terminal output for a given tty to stdout. This means
    that you will see whatever the user sees.

    WRITE (-t tty): Attach to a tty and log the I/O to a trace file for
    future analysis.

    READ (-r file): Analyze a trace file for key strokes or for terminal
    output or for bandwidth usage.

      --tty tty
        Specify which psuedo terminal to use
        Example: --tty pts/1
      --write file
        Save the packet data to a file for later analysis
        Example: --write trace.log
      --read file
        Read from a saved packet file
        Example: --read trace.log
      --bandwidth file
        Log network bandwidth used to a file
        Example: --bandwidth ssh.bytes_log
      --input file
        Log keystrokes sent to terminal to a file
        Example: --input keyboard.log
      --output file
        Log terminal output to a file
        Example: --output terminal.log
      --help
        Show this usage message.

    Note that all options may be abbreviated, i.e., "-h" is the same as
    "--help".

DESCRIPTION
    This utility is intended for attaching to currently running tty sessions
    for the purposes of administration, shell assisting, bandwidth tracking,
    and logging for debugging or training. Unlike other tty sniffers, this
    utility does not require any patches to the kernel or any system
    configuration modifications or tweaking. You can even install it AFTER
    someone has logged in and connect on the fly to instantly view their
    session which has already been currently running for a long time.

DISCLAIMER
    Please be sensitive to the privacy of others! The author will not be
    held liable for any violation of privacy or damage that may be caused by
    unauthorized use of this utility. It is left to the discretion of the
    user of this application to deem what is appropriate.

REQUIREMENTS
    This utility has been designed and is only known with work under the
    Linux platform, specifically the RedHat flavor, but possibly others. It
    requires that the strace utility be installed within the PATH. It
    assumes the tty sessions to be logged have been created from the sshd
    server. It does not work for terminal logins directly from the console.
    You must be the root user for permissions to use this program
    effectively. It is recommended that you have a very large screen and
    maximize your client because you will be seeing the terminal in the same
    dimensions as the tty of the user you are connecting to and you might
    not be able to see everything if your screen is constantly wrapping. The
    user must type at least one character to begin monitoring. Also, it is
    not recommended to log your own tty session as it may cause an infinite
    loop. If you really need to log your session, just send it to a trace
    file (using -w) and analyze it later (using -r) after your session is
    finished.

AUTHOR
      Rob Brown rob@asquad.com
      A-Squad.Com

COPYRIGHT
      Copyright 2004-2005
      All rights reserved
      Artistic License

SEE ALSO
    w(1) strace(1)

VERSION
    $Id: ttylog,v 1.10 2005/03/11 14:09:36 rob Exp $

